in order to remove items from the collection.
The logical thing to do is to loop through the collection and selectively deletes earn
items.
However,
if you're using a four Next Live to control the looping,
the fact that it uses a numerical index poses certain problems,
and that's what we'll be discussing in this video.
Let's go into the Exercises folder and for this example,
let's take a copy of this file that we've used a couple of times and let's rename it so
we'll call it 0607 the Elite tables,
and then it's open it.
So if you remember,
we've already got this attached to our word VB,
a training template and that gives us access to all our code.
So what we'll say in this example is that we want to target the last table in every quarter
,
so we've got one table for each month.
So you want to do March,
June,
September on December,
and we simply want to delete those specific tables.
So let's get into visual basic,
And if you don't have it open,
just open up your section.
Six more duel.
Then we can just scroll to the bottom here and add a new macro.
And then I'll go into my preferred procedure view several dim a counter I as enter joke
trammeled them a document.
Then we'll set a document variable equal to,
and I'm just gonna copy that name and paste it.
Then we can go straight into our four next loop for I equals 3 to 12.
Step three next by and then inside the loop or we want to do is to delete the table whose
index number matters the current value off I our counter.
So we simply say,
Don't cables dot tables brackets.
I I don't delete.
A simple is that.
Then let's save our changes.
And since we're gonna mess up the document before we do that,
I'm just going to select everything.
So control a selectable and copy it.
So once we've messed it up,
we can just paste it back.
Let's then run.
I'll macro and we get an error.
The requested member of the collection does not exist,
and,
of course,
if we click on debug,
the line that it highlights is the line where it's deleted the tables.
Let's hit the reset button to continue on.
Just investigate to see what's going on.
So it's faithfully deleted that march table.
But we can see that June is still there.
July is gone and November is gone.
So basically we're not getting the results that we anticipated.
Let's just select all and paste what we compute out here.
The reason is very simple.
This line is being evaluated each time we loop and each time we delete one of the tables,
we reduce in the size of the collection by one.
So eventually we're going to come up against an index which no longer exists.
So we're saying Doc,
tables dot tables I and the value of I is greater than the total number of tables.
So the solution is very simple.
You loop in reverse,
you start with the highest index and work your way down towards the lowest.
So we moved 12 as the start in value and then three as the end in value.
And of course,
Step three will no longer work because we're adding three to get from 12 to 3,
which is not gonna work.
So we have to say step minus three.
So let's try it again.
I'm going to say and run no errors on Let's go back to word.
So here we can see September June mulch all gun and ah,
November Sorry on three and December is Thea the full.
On this occasion,
it was useful to use the for next loop because we weren't deleting all the items in the
collection.
If you are dilated,
all the items in a collection the simple rule is instead of using the four next loop use
for each.
That way there's no numerical index to consider.
You're simply saying process All of the objects in the collection on removed them.
So let me just paste back all of these so selectable and paste and let's return to full
module You on right another some routine.
So unless one answering live all objects.
So this time,
instead of a counter we didn't an object.
So tvl delete,
Let's say and then I'm just gonna nip back to the release of objects and caught me these
two lines.
So here we can use for each tvl elite in dog tables got tables and that's closed with next
tvl delete on to delete each table.
We simply say tbl deletes not dilate so as you can see using for each completely gets rid
of the problem or potential problem of index in.
So any time you're simply removing all objects in a collection,
this is by far the easiest way to approach it.
Let's just save on test.
No errors and no tables left.
And again,
I'm just going to select all and paste just in case we need Teoh.
Test this again.
One final safe,
and we don't to remove objects from a collection.
Look through the collection and use the appropriate method e g.
Delete.
If you use a four next loop to remove only certain items,
you must live from the highest index down to the lowest.
To avoid errors.
To remove all items from a collection,
simply use a four each next loop in preference to fall next.